FIRESTORE_INDEX_FIX.md, before:

# Firestore Index Configuration Fix

## Problem Description

The application is experiencing Firestore query failures due to missing composite indexes. The error messages indicate that these specific queries require indexes:

1. **Users Live Query**: `Query(users where isLive==true order by -liveStartTime, -__name__)`
2. **Conversations Query**: `Query(conversations where participants array_contains [USER_ID] order by -updatedAt, -__name__)`

## Solution 1: Create Required Indexes (Recommended)

### Step 1: Create the indexes using the provided links

The error messages contain direct links to create the required indexes. Click on these links in your Firebase Console:

**For Users Live Query:**
```
https://console.firebase.google.com/v1/r/project/streamyz-12c4d/firestore/indexes?create_composite=Ckxwcm9qZWN0cy9zdHJlYW15ei0xMmM0ZC9kYXRhYmFzZXMvKGRlZmF1bHQpL2NvbGxlY3Rpb25Hcm91cHMvdXNlcnMvaW5kZXhlcy9fEAEaCgoGaXNMaXZlEAEaEQoNbGl2ZVN0YXJ0VGltZRACGgwKCF9fbmFtZV9fEAI
```

**For Conversations Query:**
```
https://console.firebase.google.com/v1/r/project/streamyz-12c4d/firestore/indexes?create_composite=ClRwcm9qZWN0cy9zdHJlYW15ei0xMmM0ZC9kYXRhYmFzZXMvKGRlZmF1bHQpL2NvbGxlY3Rpb25Hcm91cHMvY29udmVyc2F0aW9ucy9pbmRleGVzL18QARoQCgxwYXJ0aWNpcGFudHMYARoNCgl1cGRhdGVkQXQQAhoMCghfX25hbWVfXxAC
```

### Step 2: Manual Index Creation (Alternative)

If the links don't work, create the indexes manually in Firebase Console:

#### Index 1: Users Collection
- **Collection**: `users`
- **Fields**:
  - `isLive` (Ascending)
  - `liveStartTime` (Descending)
  - `__name__` (Descending)

#### Index 2: Conversations Collection
- **Collection**: `conversations`
- **Fields**:
  - `participants` (Array-contains)
  - `updatedAt` (Descending)
  - `__name__` (Descending)

## Solution 2: Temporary Query Modifications (Quick Fix)

If you need immediate functionality while indexes are being built, you can temporarily modify the queries to avoid the composite index requirement:

### Modify Live Service Query

```dart
// In lib/services/live_service.dart
static Stream<List<Map<String, dynamic>>> getActiveLiveStreams() {
  return _firestore
      .collection('users')
      .where('isLive', isEqualTo: true)
      // Remove orderBy temporarily
      .snapshots()
      .map((snapshot) {
        // Sort in memory instead
        final docs = snapshot.docs.map((doc) => {'id': doc.id, ...doc.data()}).toList();
        docs.sort((a, b) {
          final aTime = a['liveStartTime'] as Timestamp?;
          final bTime = b['liveStartTime'] as Timestamp?;
          if (aTime == null && bTime == null) return 0;
          if (aTime == null) return 1;
          if (bTime == null) return -1;
          return bTime.compareTo(aTime); // Descending order
        });
        return docs;
      });
}
```

### Modify Live Feed Query

```dart
// In lib/views/home/live_feed.dart
void _initializeLiveStream() {
  _liveUsersStream = FirebaseFirestore.instance
      .collection('users')
      .where('isLive', isEqualTo: true)
      // Remove orderBy temporarily
      .snapshots();
}
```

### Modify Chat Queries

```dart
// In lib/views/home/chat_list.dart and chat.dart
Stream<List<Map<String, dynamic>>> _getConversationsStream() {
  final currentUserId = FirebaseAuth.instance.currentUser?.uid;
  if (currentUserId == null) {
    return const Stream.empty();
  }

  return FirebaseFirestore.instance
      .collection('conversations')
      .where('participants', arrayContains: currentUserId)
      // Remove orderBy temporarily
      .snapshots()
      .map((snapshot) {
        // Sort in memory instead
        final docs = snapshot.docs.map((doc) => {'id': doc.id, ...doc.data()}).toList();
        docs.sort((a, b) {
          final aTime = a['updatedAt'] as Timestamp?;
          final bTime = b['updatedAt'] as Timestamp?;
          if (aTime == null && bTime == null) return 0;
          if (aTime == null) return 1;
          if (bTime == null) return -1;
          return bTime.compareTo(aTime); // Descending order
        });
        return docs;
      });
}
```

## Implementation Steps

1. **Immediate Fix**: Apply the FloatingActionButton hero tag fixes (already completed)
2. **Short-term**: Implement the query modifications for immediate functionality
3. **Long-term**: Create the proper Firestore indexes using Solution 1

## Index Build Time

- Composite indexes typically take 5-15 minutes to build for small datasets
- You can monitor the build progress in the Firebase Console under "Firestore" > "Indexes"
- The app will work normally once the indexes are ready

## Notes

- The temporary query modifications will work but may be slower for large datasets
- Always prefer the proper index solution for production apps
- The in-memory sorting approach has limitations on the number of documents that can be sorted efficiently

## Files Modified

The following files have been updated to fix the FloatingActionButton hero tag issue:
- `lib/views/home/home_page.dart`
- `lib/views/home/chat_list.dart`
- `lib/views/home/chat.dart`

Commit message:

feat: Add Firestore index fix documentation for gifts collection
feat: Enable vertical scrolling for LiveWelcomePage

docs: Create comprehensive documentation for Streamyz application

fix: Add Firestore index fix for gifts queries

chore: Implement manual cleanup script for stale live entries

feat: Develop LiveCleanupService for managing live statuses

feat: Enhance ExplorePage with live stream filtering and viewing

test: Add Zego configuration tests

FIRESTORE_INDEX_FIX.md, after:

# Firestore Index Configuration Fix

## Problem Description

The application is experiencing Firestore query failures due to missing composite indexes. The error messages indicate that these specific queries require indexes:

1. **Users Live Query**: `Query(users where isLive==true order by -liveStartTime, -__name__)`
2. **Conversations Query**: `Query(conversations where participants array_contains [USER_ID] order by -updatedAt, -__name__)`

## Solution 1: Create Required Indexes (Recommended)

### Step 1: Create the indexes using the provided links

The error messages contain direct links to create the required indexes. Click on these links in your Firebase Console:

**For Users Live Query:**
```
https://console.firebase.google.com/v1/r/project/streamyz-12c4d/firestore/indexes?create_composite=Ckxwcm9qZWN0cy9zdHJlYW15ei0xMmM0ZC9kYXRhYmFzZXMvKGRlZmF1bHQpL2NvbGxlY3Rpb25Hcm91cHMvdXNlcnMvaW5kZXhlcy9fEAEaCgoGaXNMaXZlEAEaEQoNbGl2ZVN0YXJ0VGltZRACGgwKCF9fbmFtZV9fEAI
```

**For Conversations Query:**
```
https://console.firebase.google.com/v1/r/project/streamyz-12c4d/firestore/indexes?create_composite=ClRwcm9qZWN0cy9zdHJlYW15ei0xMmM0ZC9kYXRhYmFzZXMvKGRlZmF1bHQpL2NvbGxlY3Rpb25Hcm91cHMvY29udmVyc2F0aW9ucy9pbmRleGVzL18QARoQCgxwYXJ0aWNpcGFudHMYARoNCgl1cGRhdGVkQXQQAhoMCghfX25hbWVfXxAC
```

### Step 2: Manual Index Creation (Alternative)

If the links don't work, create the indexes manually in Firebase Console:

#### Index 1: Users Collection
- **Collection**: `users`
- **Fields**:
  - `isLive` (Ascending)
  - `liveStartTime` (Descending)
  - `__name__` (Descending)

#### Index 2: Conversations Collection
- **Collection**: `conversations`
- **Fields**:
  - `participants` (Array-contains)
  - `updatedAt` (Descending)
  - `__name__` (Descending)

## Issue
The following Firestore query requires an index:

```javascript
Query(gifts where liveID==live_<liveID> order by -timestamp, -__name__);
```

## Solution
To resolve this issue, create the required index in Firestore:

1. Open the Firebase Console.
2. Navigate to the Firestore Database section.
3. Click on "Indexes" in the left-hand menu.
4. Click "Create Index".
5. Configure the index as follows:
   - **Collection**: `gifts`
   - **Fields**:
     - `liveID`: Ascending
     - `timestamp`: Descending
     - `__name__`: Descending
6. Save the index.

Alternatively, use the following direct link to create the index:
[Create Firestore Index](https://console.firebase.google.com/v1/r/project/streamyz-12c4d/firestore/indexes?create_composite=Ckxwcm9qZWN0cy9zdHJlYW15ei0xMmM0ZC9kYXRhYmFzZXMvKGRlZmF1bHQpL2NvbGxlY3Rpb25Hcm91cHMvZ2lmdHMvaW5kZXhlcy9fEAEaCgoGbGl2ZUlEEAEaDQoJdGltZXN0YW1wEAIaDAoIX19uYW1lX18QAg).

## Notes
- Ensure the Firestore rules allow access to the `gifts` collection.
- Test the query after creating the index to confirm the issue is resolved.

## Solution 2: Temporary Query Modifications (Quick Fix)

If you need immediate functionality while indexes are being built, you can temporarily modify the queries to avoid the composite index requirement:

### Modify Live Service Query

```dart
// In lib/services/live_service.dart
static Stream<List<Map<String, dynamic>>> getActiveLiveStreams() {
  return _firestore
      .collection('users')
      .where('isLive', isEqualTo: true)
      // Remove orderBy temporarily
      .snapshots()
      .map((snapshot) {
        // Sort in memory instead
        final docs = snapshot.docs.map((doc) => {'id': doc.id, ...doc.data()}).toList();
        docs.sort((a, b) {
          final aTime = a['liveStartTime'] as Timestamp?;
          final bTime = b['liveStartTime'] as Timestamp?;
          if (aTime == null && bTime == null) return 0;
          if (aTime == null) return 1;
          if (bTime == null) return -1;
          return bTime.compareTo(aTime); // Descending order
        });
        return docs;
      });
}
```

### Modify Live Feed Query

```dart
// In lib/views/home/live_feed.dart
void _initializeLiveStream() {
  _liveUsersStream = FirebaseFirestore.instance
      .collection('users')
      .where('isLive', isEqualTo: true)
      // Remove orderBy temporarily
      .snapshots();
}
```

### Modify Chat Queries

```dart
// In lib/views/home/chat_list.dart and chat.dart
Stream<List<Map<String, dynamic>>> _getConversationsStream() {
  final currentUserId = FirebaseAuth.instance.currentUser?.uid;
  if (currentUserId == null) {
    return const Stream.empty();
  }

  return FirebaseFirestore.instance
      .collection('conversations')
      .where('participants', arrayContains: currentUserId)
      // Remove orderBy temporarily
      .snapshots()
      .map((snapshot) {
        // Sort in memory instead
        final docs = snapshot.docs.map((doc) => {'id': doc.id, ...doc.data()}).toList();
        docs.sort((a, b) {
          final aTime = a['updatedAt'] as Timestamp?;
          final bTime = b['updatedAt'] as Timestamp?;
          if (aTime == null && bTime == null) return 0;
          if (aTime == null) return 1;
          if (bTime == null) return -1;
          return bTime.compareTo(aTime); // Descending order
        });
        return docs;
      });
}
```

## Implementation Steps

1. **Immediate Fix**: Apply the FloatingActionButton hero tag fixes (already completed)
2. **Short-term**: Implement the query modifications for immediate functionality
3. **Long-term**: Create the proper Firestore indexes using Solution 1

## Index Build Time

- Composite indexes typically take 5-15 minutes to build for small datasets
- You can monitor the build progress in the Firebase Console under "Firestore" > "Indexes"
- The app will work normally once the indexes are ready

## Notes

- The temporary query modifications will work but may be slower for large datasets
- Always prefer the proper index solution for production apps
- The in-memory sorting approach has limitations on the number of documents that can be sorted efficiently

## Files Modified

The following files have been updated to fix the FloatingActionButton hero tag issue:
- `lib/views/home/home_page.dart`
- `lib/views/home/chat_list.dart`
- `lib/views/home/chat.dart`
